jflap-lib
==============

Jflap-lib is an improved version of JFLAP 7.0 to be used as a library and a command line tool, specially useful for building auto-grading tools.

## What is JFLAP?

JFLAP is an extremely useful software for teaching and learning about formal languages. According to [jflap.org](jflap.org), _"JFLAP is software for experimenting with formal languages topics including nondeterministic finite automata, nondeterministic pushdown automata, multi-tape Turing machines, several types of grammars, parsing, and L-systems"_. JFLAP is mantained by [Susan H. Rodger](https://users.cs.duke.edu/~rodger/) et al. from the [Department of Computer Science at Duke University](http://www.cs.duke.edu/).

## What is jflap-lib?

This project is a minor modification of the original JFLAP 7.0 to replace the usage of System.out and System.err by a logger facade (slf4j) plus some code to enhance the current API and to provide command line tools. 

## Modules

* **jflaplib-core**: full JFLAP 7.0 code adapted to be used as a library
* **jflaplib-cli**: command line tool

## Installation

This project relies on [jitpack.io](https://jitpack.io/#citiususc/jflap-lib/1.0) instead of maven central to deliver artifacts. If you use maven, just add the following snippet to your `pom.xml` file to use the jitpack repository:

```xml
<repository>
    <id>jitpack.io</id>
    <url>https://jitpack.io</url>
</repository>
```

Finally, include jflap-lib as a dependency:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.github.citiususc.jflap</groupId>
    <artifactId>jflap-lib</artifactId>
    <version>1.3</version>
</dependency>
```

You can also download the compiled jars from the [release page](../../releases) or from [jitpack.io](https://jitpack.io/#citiususc/jflap-lib/1.0).

## Example

It is very easy to use JFLAP programatically. Here is an example of how to load a jff automaton 
and test it with an input:

```java
// Load an automaton jff file
FiniteStateAutomaton automaton = (FiniteStateAutomaton)new XMLCodec().decode(new File("example.jff"), null);
// Load a simulator to test the automaton
AutomatonSimulator sim = SimulatorFactory.getSimulator(automaton);
if (sim == null) throw new RuntimeException("Cannot load an automaton simulator for " + automaton.getClass());
// Test the automaton with an input
System.out.println(sim.simulateInput("10010"));
```

## Command line tool

The module `jflaplib-cli` provides a command line tool with basic functionality. A bundle jar can be generated by running `mvn clean package` or it can be downloaded from the [release page](../../releases). Here are some examples:

##### Runs the provided automaton on the input `10110`
```
$ java -jar jflaplib-cli-1.3-bundle.jar run /tmp/file.jff 10110
```

##### Checks if the two FSA accept the same language
```
$ java -jar jflaplib-cli-1.3-bundle.jar equivalent /tmp/file1.jff /tmp/file2.jff
```

##### Converts a FSA to its equivalent regular expression
```
$ java -jar jflaplib-cli-1.3-bundle.jar regular /tmp/file1.jff
```
